- [blacklist_literal.py](blacklist_literal.py): A mostly literal translation of [blacklist.cpp](https://github.com/Boyle-Lab/Blacklist/blob/master/blacklist.cpp) from c++ to python. Inputs are identical to the original and the program looks for ./input and ./mappability respectively. Line numbers should correspond closely.
    - Inputs:
        - `BAM file(s)` = used to calculate the excludable list.
        - `mappability file(s)` = binary uint8 file(s) either generated by [umap](https://github.com/hoffmangroup/umap) or found at [Hoffman's Lab](https://bismap.hoffmanlab.org/).
    - Outputs:
        - `bed file` = a BED formmated file containing excludable regions and annotations. 
            - *output to terminal*

- [blacklist2.py](blacklist2.py): Improved blacklist generation based on [blacklist.cpp](https://github.com/Boyle-Lab/Blacklist/blob/master/blacklist.cpp)
    - Inputs:
        - `BAM file(s)` = used to calculate the excludable list.
        - `mappability file(s)` = binary uint8 file(s) either generated by [umap](https://github.com/hoffmangroup/umap) or found at [Hoffman's Lab](https://bismap.hoffmanlab.org/).
    - Outputs:
        - `bed file` = a BED formmated file containing excludable regions and annotations.
    - Available Parameters:
        - -b, --bams
            - A comma separated list of bam files or directories containing bam files to process.
            - default = ./input
        - -m, --mappability
            - This is the directory of mappability file(s).
            - default = ./mappability
        - -r, --regions
            - A comma separated list to tell the program to look for and output only the specified regions. If mappability file for specific region is not found, region will be skipped.
            - default = all
        - -i, --bin
            - Sets the size of bin to use; default is 1000.
            - default = 1000
        - -p, --overlap
            - Sets the overlap between bins; default is 100.
            - default = 100
        - -g, --bridge
            - Sets the bridge size. Does not affect new output.
            - default = 200
        - -u, --unique
            - Sets the unique length within the get_mappability_bins function. According to Boyle, "This is arbitraty and defines how long a read needs to be to be considered unique Should be set to something actually calculated in the uint8 files."
            - default = 36
        - -l, --original
            - Will output original regions' annotations marked with asterisks: *region*.
        - -L, --originalOnly
            - Will output with original algorithm from Boyle only.
        - -w, --weak
            - Sets the weak percentile for calculating thresholds.
            - default = 0.99
        - -s, --strong
            - Sets the strong percentile for calculating thresholds.
            - default = 0.999
        - -o, --output
            - Path to output .bed file; Default is ./b2output.bed.
            - default = ./b2output.bed
        - -v, --view,
            - Whether to print output to terminal and not to file.
        - -n, --noMerge
            - Do not merge regions if they are overlaping
