# Supplememtary Tables

[Supplementary_Table_S1.csv](Supplementary_Table_S1.csv)
**Supplementary Table S1. Diverse characteristics of human sequencing data used by the Blacklist software.** "bam_accession_table" – Accession numbers of 1,255 BAM files and the associated FASTQ files ("R1 FASTQs", "R2 FASTQs"), their paired-end status, and indicators of whether the data was cropped, pooled, duplicated, or restricted. Also includes BAM read length and the number of mapped and unmapped reads. "donor_accession_table" – Accession numbers of 250 donors and the associated BAM files, total mapped and unmapped reads per donor, number of BAM files per donor, read length, and tissue ontology. "fastq_accession_table" – Characteristics of the original FASTQ files used to generate sample-specific BAM files.

[Supplementary_Table_S2.xlsx](Supplementary_Table_S2.xlsx)
**Supplementary Table S2. Dominant High Signal annotation counts and proportions in exclusion sets generated by the Blacklist software.** The "Corrected List" refers to exclusion sets generated using our modified version of the Blacklist software, which enables dual high-signal and low-mappability annotations.

[Supplementary_Table_S3.csv](Supplementary_Table_S3.csv)
**Supplementary Table S3. Characteristics of exclusion sets aligned with different aligners.** Total number and average width of the regions, number of regions overlapping gaps, and proportion of gap coverage.

[Supplementary_Table_S4.csv](Supplementary_Table_S4.csv)
**Supplementary Table S4. Characteristics of exclusion sets generated with different parameters.** Total number and average width of the regions, number of regions overlapping gaps, and proportion of gap coverage. The list names include the bridge parameter (e.g., b1000), the k-mer parameter (e.g., k36), and the number of files (e.g., n50).

[Supplementary_Table_S5.xlsx](Supplementary_Table_S5.xlsx)
**Supplementary Table S5. Genes affected by exclusion sets.** Protein-coding genes, sorted alphabetically, are listed first, followed by lncRNAs and other categories.

[Supplementary_Table_S6.xlsx](Supplementary_Table_S6.xlsx)
**Supplementary Table S6. Oncogenes and tumor suppressors affected by exclusion sets.** "Cancer Association" results from the oncoEnrichR analysis are shown for each list, sorted by oncogenic and tumor suppressor confidence levels.

[Supplementary_Table_S7.csv](Supplementary_Table_S7.csv)
**Supplementary Table S7. Alignment statistics of ChIP-seq input sequencing data to the "sponge" sequences and other contigs comprising the human genome reference.**

[Supplementary_Table_S8.csv](Supplementary_Table_S8.csv)
**Supplementary Table S8. Differentially expressed genes between samples aligned to the hg38 autosomal reference and to the hg38 reference with the "sponge" sequences.**
